---

category : release
title: Firefly v3.0.3 is released
date: "2014-11-15 00:00:00 +0800"
author: Alvin Qiu
excerpt: Firefly v3.0.3 fixed some bugs and optimized the framework's performance. The last update was one year ago. During this time, I have been improving various aspects of Firefly framework. Now, I have deployed firefly to Apache Central Repository, so you can download it easy. Please click view all to see the details.

---
<p class="text-muted"> {{ page.date | date_to_string }}, {{ page.author }}</p>

The firefly v3.0.3 fixed some bugs and optimized the framework's performance. The last update was one year ago. During this time, I have been improving various aspects of Firefly framework and complete a more detailed guide document. Now, I have deployed firefly to Apache Central Repository, so you can download it easy. The pom is:

{% highlight xml %}
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.fireflysource</groupId>
  <artifactId>firefly-common</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.3</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.fireflysource</groupId>
  <artifactId>firefly-template</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.3</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.fireflysource</groupId>
  <artifactId>firefly-nettool</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.3</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.fireflysource</groupId>
  <artifactId>firefly</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.3</version>
</dependency>
{% endhighlight %}


Update log:  

1. Add a new collection class, consistent hash.
2. Use ConcurrentLinkedHashMap instead of ConcurrentLRUHashMap.
3. Fix the log tools make directory problem.
4. Fix the problem that some special characters don't escape in json tool
5. The template adds string filter function.
6. Optimize nettool's thread model and code structure.
7. Optimize template expression language.
8. The object navigation expression adds the map's key that is integer type.
9. The template language adds two default function that are "remove" and "modOut"
10. Fix the array index out bound occurs in json tool outputs string.
11. Fix client can visit the any directories of host through http server.
12. Fix the CutStringFunction isn't boundary check lead to StringIndexOutOfBoundsException.
13. Add a business logic thread queued mechanism.
14. Enable thread pool parameter instead of pipeline parameter in HTTP server.
15. Add the property reflect wrapped method with cache.
16. Fix the risk of SimpleTcpClient connection leaking.
17. Add compiler utils and maven module configuration.
18. Add constructor injection using annotation or XML configuration.
19. Improve performance of the date roll file log.
20. Add copy method of ReflectUtils and improves performance.
