---

category : routine
layout: post
title: Firefly v3.0.2 released
excerpt: The firefly v3.0.2 fixed some bugs and optimized the framework's performance. The last update was one year ago. During this time, I have been improving various aspects of Firefly framework. Now, I have deployed firefly to Apache Central Repository, so you can download it easy. Please click view all to see the detail.

---


## {{ page.title }} ##

The firefly v3.0.2 fixed some bugs and optimized the framework's performance. The last update was one year ago. During this time, I have been improving various aspects of Firefly framework and complete a more detailed document. Now, I have deployed firefly to Apache Central Repository, so you can download it easy. The pom is:

{% highlight xml %}
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.fireflysource</groupId>
  <artifactId>firefly-common</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.2</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.fireflysource</groupId>
  <artifactId>firefly-template</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.2</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.fireflysource</groupId>
  <artifactId>firefly-nettool</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.2</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.fireflysource</groupId>
  <artifactId>firefly</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.2</version>
</dependency>
{% endhighlight %}
 

Update log:  

1. Adds a new collection class, consistent hash.
2. Uses ConcurrentLinkedHashMap instead of ConcurrentLRUHashMap.
3. Fixes the log tools make directory problem.
4. Fixes the problem that some special characters don't escape in json tool
5. The template adds string filter function.
6. Optimizes nettool's thread model and code structure.
7. Optimizes template expression language.
8. The object navigation expression adds the map's key that is integer type.
9. The template language adds two default function that are "remove" and "modOut"
10. Fixes the array index out bound occurs in json tool outputs string.
11. Fixes client can visit the any directories of host through http server.
12. Fixes the CutStringFunction isn't boundary check lead to StringIndexOutOfBoundsException.
13. Adds a business logic thread queued mechanism.
14. Enables thread pool parameter instead of pipeline parameter in HTTP server.
15. Adds the property reflect wrapped method with cache.
16. Fixes the risk of SimpleTcpClient connection leaking.
17. Adds compiler utils and maven module configuration.
18. Adds constructor injection using annotation or XML configuration.
19. Improves performance of the date roll file log.
20. Adds copy method of ReflectUtils and improves performance.

